Research Paper Week 1 – The God Concept and Something Else

The God concept is sometimes a personification of the forces of nature. Often it is a person’s attempt to understand or define the world around them. The concept of a god provides a pathway for finding meaning in things that may otherwise seem absurd. This seems to be an important element to a civilized world. It could be the glue that holds a community together; or the axe that divides. A culture’s relationship with the god concept can dictate the lives of the people involved. It can craft the world beyond the population of any one practicing religion. Interfaith interaction is not uncommon, and the foundation upon new practices can be built. Our relationship with our personal god concept and our faiths’ have even influenced how we interact beyond the celestial body that is Earth.  Somewhere on the moon, it is written;
“To the glory of the name of God who gives such power to men, we ardently pray for this wonderful beginning.”
-	Paul VI Pope
Deus Ex machina, is a Latin phrase coined for a plot device whereby a seemingly unsolvable problem is unexpectedly solved in such an unlikely way that it can feel contrived. It comes from a literal machine used in Greek theater that was used to lift actors, often “Gods” into and out of the set. Think a crane with cables ala Chris Angel mindfreak style. The god’s would fly in from nowhere and solve some kind of problem the actors on stage were having. Then fly away as mystically as they arrived. Of course, there were critics of the device, some would call it lazy, or evidence that the playwright has lost the ability to manage the complexities of the plot. Horace, a popular Latin writer at the time, instructs poets that they should never resort to a "god from the machine" to resolve their plots "unless a difficulty worthy of a god's unraveling should happen". This device, both literally and figuratively represent the ideal god concept. A device that can solve problems, give closure, and yet works in the most mysterious ways. Like the Deus Ex machina, God sums it all up.
	This ability to shape the plot, and exhibit such power over the circumstances of the people they affect is one of the things that defines a god. Well so far, its only day one. 400 words isn’t bad tho yea?
